docs(activate): document auto-activation, allow/deny, and the BETA feature flag (DEV-89) (#4407)
flox/flox: cli/flox/doc/flox-activate-allow.md

---
title: FLOX-ACTIVATE-ALLOW
section: 1
header: "Flox User Manuals"
...

# NAME

flox-activate-allow - allow auto-activation for an environment

# SYNOPSIS

```text
flox [<general-options>] activate allow

>      [-d=<path> | -r=<owner>/<name> | -D]

Author: Are `-r` and `-D` really valid flags for this command? My assumption was that this only applied to `-d` paths, since the trigger for auto-activation is cd-ing into an environment directory (which doesn't apply to remote environments).

```suggestion
     [-d=<path>]
```

Author: Good catch — `allow`/`deny` resolve the environment by its local parent path, so only `-d` is meaningful (`-r`/`-D` would fail). Synopsis and options now show just `-d`. https://github.com/flox/flox/commit/60c6479dc

```

# DESCRIPTION

```{.include}
./include/auto-activate-experimental.md
```

> Records that the selected environment may be auto-activated.

Author: Phrasing

```suggestion
Permits the selected environment to be auto-activated.
```

Author: Done. https://github.com/flox/flox/commit/8237ac879

---
title: FLOX-ACTIVATE-ALLOW
section: 1
header: "Flox User Manuals"
...

# NAME

flox-activate-allow - allow auto-activation for an environment

# SYNOPSIS

```text
flox [<general-options>] activate allow
     [-d=<path>]
```

# DESCRIPTION

```{.include}
./include/auto-activate-experimental.md
```

Permits the selected environment to be auto-activated.

Once an environment is allowed,
the Flox prompt hook activates it automatically whenever you enter a directory

> containing it,

Reviewer: Wondering if we should mention when the environment gets deactivated after it was auto-activated.

> without prompting.

Author: ```suggestion
without prompting (and deactivates it when you leave).
```
